cloud: add doc for Data APP GitHub integration (#13674)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-github-connection.md

---
title: Deploy Data App Automatically with GitHub
summary: Learn how to deploy your Data App automatically with GitHub.
---

# Deploy Data App Automatically with GitHub

TiDB Cloud provides a Configuration as Code (CaC) approach to represent your whole Data App configuration as code using the JSON syntax.

By connecting your Data App to GitHub, TiDB Cloud can use the CaC approach and push your Data App configurations as [configuration files](/tidb-cloud/data-service-app-config-files.md) to your preferred GitHub repository and branch.

If automatic deployment is enabled for your GitHub connection, you can also modify your Data App by updating its configuration files on GitHub. After you commit the configuration file changes to GitHub, the new configurations will be deployed in TiDB Cloud automatically.

In this document, you will learn how to deploy your Data App automatically with GitHub and how to manage the GitHub connection.

## Before you begin

Before you connect a Data App to GitHub, make sure that you have the following:

- A GitHub account.
- A GitHub repository with your target branch.

> **Note:**
>

> > The GitHub repository is used to store [Data App configuration files](/tidb-cloud/data-service-app-config-files.md) after you connect a Data App to it. If the information (such as cluster ID and endpoint URL) in the configuration files is sensitive, make sure to use a private repository instead of a public one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The GitHub repository is used to store [Data App configuration files](/tidb-cloud/data-service-app-config-files.md) after you connect a Data App to it. If the information (such as the cluster ID and endpoint URL) in the configuration files is sensitive, make sure to use a private repository instead of a public one.
```

## Step 1. Connect your Data App to GitHub

You can connect your Data App to GitHub when you create the App. For more information, see [Create a Data App](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-data-app.md).

> If you did not enable the GitHub connection during the app creation, you can still enable it as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you did not enable the GitHub connection during the App creation, you can still enable it as follows:
```

1. Navigate to the [**Data Service**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/data-service) page of your project.
2. In the left pane, click the name of your target Data App to view its details.
3. On the **Settings** tab, click **Connect** in the **Connect to GitHub** area. A dialog box for connection settings is displayed.
4. In the dialog box, perform the following steps:

    1. Click **Install on GitHub**, and then follow the on-screen instructions to install **TiDB Cloud Data Service** as an application on your target repository.
    2. Click **Authorize** to authorize access to the application on GitHub.
    3. Specify the target repository, branch, and directory where you want to store the configuration files of your Data App.

        > **Note:**
        >

>         > - The directory must start with a slash. For example, `/mydata`. If the directory you specified does not exist in the target repository and branch, it will be created automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        > - The directory must start with a slash (`/`). For example, `/mydata`. If the directory you specified does not exist in the target repository and branch, it will be created automatically.
```

        > - The combination of repository, branch, and directory identifies the path of the configuration files, which must be unique among Data Apps. If your specified path is already used by another Data App, you need to specify a new path instead. Otherwise, the endpoints configured in the TiDB Cloud console for the current Data App will overwrite the files in your specified path.
        > - If your specified path contains configuration files copied from another Data App and you want to import these files to the current Data App, see [Import configurations of an existing Data App](#import-configurations-of-an-existing-data-app).

    4. For **Configure Auto Sync & Deployment**, enable or disable this option according to your need.

>         - When it is enabled, the changes made in your specified GitHub directory can be automatically deployed in TiDB Cloud, and you can find the corresponding deployment and commit information in the Data App deployment history.

Reviewer 2: 这个地方的解释可以像上面有个评论里增加下 UI部署会同步回github

        - When it is disabled, the changes made in your specified GitHub directory will **NOT** be deployed in TiDB Cloud, which means that the Data App is not affected by your changes in GitHub.

5. Click **Confirm Connect**.

> ## Step 2. Synchronize Data App configurations to GitHub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2. Synchronize Data App configurations with GitHub
```

> If you synchronize two activities, processes, or movements, or if you synchronize one activity, process, or movement **with** another, you cause them to happen at the same time and speed as each other.

https://www.collinsdictionary.com/dictionary/english/synchronize

Author: 这个步骤是针对第一次同步，第一次同步时是单向的，只能从 console 到 GitHub。
如果 automatic deployment 没开启的话，就会一直是单向的。

If GitHub connection is enabled when you [create a Data App](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-data-app.md), TiDB Cloud pushes the configuration files of this Data App to GitHub immediately after the App creation.

> If GitHub connection for your Data App is enabled after the App creation, you need to perform a deployment operation to synchronize the Data App configurations to GitHub. For example, you can click the **Deployment** tab, and then re-deploy a deployment for this Data App.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If GitHub connection for your Data App is enabled after the App creation, you need to perform a deployment operation to synchronize the Data App configurations with GitHub. For example, you can click the **Deployment** tab, and then re-deploy a deployment for this Data App.
```

> After the deployment operation, check your specified GitHub directory. You will find that the Data App configuration files have been committed to the directory by `tidb-cloud-data-service`, which means that your Data App is connected to GitHub successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the deployment operation, check your specified GitHub directory. You will find that the Data App configuration files have been committed to the directory by `tidb-cloud-data-service`, which means that your Data App is connected to GitHub successfully. The directory structure is as follows:
```

│   │       ├── <method>-<endpoint-path1>.sql
│   │       ├── <method>-<endpoint-path2>.sql
│   │       └── <method>-<endpoint-path3>.sql
```

## Step 3. Modify your Data App

When automatic deployment is enabled, you can modify your Data App using either GitHub or the TiDB Cloud console.

- [Option 1: Modify your Data App by updating files on GitHub](#option-1-modify-your-data-app-by-updating-files-on-github)
- [Option 2: Modify your Data App in the TiDB Cloud console](#option-2-modify-your-data-app-in-the-tidb-cloud-console)

> **Note:**
>
> - If you have modified your Data App on GitHub and TiDB Cloud console at the same time, to resolve conflicts, you can choose either discard the changes made in the console or let the console changes overwrite the GitHub changes.
> - When automatic deployment is disabled, you can modify your Data App only in the TiDB Cloud console as described in [Option 2](#option-2-modify-your-data-app-in-the-tidb-cloud-console).

### Option 1: Modify your Data App by updating files on GitHub

When updating the configuration files, pay attention to the following:

| File directory  | Notes |
| ---------|---------|

> | `data_source/cluster.json`     | When updating this file, make sure that the linked clusters are Serverless clusters and that you have access to the clusters. You can get the ID of a cluster from the cluster URL. For example, if the cluster URL is `https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters/1379661944646164631/overview`, the cluster ID is `1379661944646164631`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `data_source/cluster.json`     | When updating this file, make sure that the linked clusters are TiDB Serverless clusters and that you have access to the clusters. You can get the cluster ID from the cluster URL. For example, if the cluster URL is `https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters/1234567891234567890/overview`, the cluster ID is `1234567891234567890`. |
```

> | `data_source/cluster.json`     | When updating this file, make sure that the linked clusters are TiDB Serverless clusters and that you have access to the clusters. You can get the cluster ID from the cluster URL. For example, if the cluster URL is `https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters/1234567891234567890/overview`, the cluster ID is `1234567891234567890`. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `data_source/cluster.json`     | When updating this file, make sure that the linked clusters are TiDB Serverless clusters and that you have access to the clusters. You can get the cluster ID from the cluster URL. For example, if your cluster URL is `https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters/1379111944646164111/overview`, the cluster ID is `1379111944646164111`.  |
```

| `http_endpoints/config.json`     | When modifying the endpoints, make sure that you follow the rules described in [HTTP endpoint configuration](/tidb-cloud/data-service-app-config-files.md#http-endpoint-configuration).   |

> | `http_endpoints/sql/method-<endpoint path>.sql`| To add or remove the SQL files in the `http_endpoints/sql` directory, you need to update the corresponding endpoint configurations as well. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `http_endpoints/sql/method-<endpoint-path>.sql`| To add or remove SQL files in the `http_endpoints/sql` directory, you need to update the corresponding endpoint configurations as well. |
```

| `datapp_config.json` | Do not change the `app_id` field in this file unless your `dataapp_config.json` file is copied from another Data App and you want to update it to the ID of your current Data App. Otherwise, the deployment triggered by this modification will fail. |

For more information about the field configuration in these files, see [Data App configuration files](/tidb-cloud/data-service-app-config-files.md).

After the file changes are committed, TiDB Cloud will automatically deploy the Data App with the latest changes on GitHub. You can view the deployment status and commit information in the deployment history.

### Option 2: Modify your Data App in the TiDB Cloud console

After [modifying your Data App endpoints](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-endpoint.md) in the TiDB Cloud console (such as modifying endpoints), you can review and deploy the changes to GitHub as follows:

> 1. Click **Review Draft & Deploy** in the upper-right corner. A dialog is displayed for you to review the changes you made.

Author: The button name is TBD

> 1. Click **Review Draft & Deploy** in the upper-right corner. A dialog is displayed for you to review the changes you made.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Click **Deploy** in the upper-right corner. A dialog is displayed for you to review the changes you made.
```

> 1. Click **Review Draft & Deploy** in the upper-right corner. A dialog is displayed for you to review the changes you made.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Click **Deploy** in the upper-right corner. A dialog is displayed for you to review the changes you made.
```

2. Depending on your review, do one of the following:

    - If you still want to make further changes based on the current draft, close this dialog and make the changes.

>     - If you want to revert the current changes to the last deployment, click **Discard Changes**. Then, click **Discard Changes** in the displayed dialog for confirmation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If you want to revert the current changes to the last deployment, click **Discard Draft**.
```

    - If the current changes look fine, write a change description (optional), and then click **Deploy and Push to GitHub**. The deployment status will be displayed in the top banner.

> **Note:**
>

> > If automatic deployment is disabled and you prefer to skip the review process, you can disable **Review draft** as instructed in [Configure Data App deployment](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-data-app.md#manage-deployments). After **Review draft** is disabled, the endpoint changes made in the TiDB Cloud console are pushed to GitHub immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If automatic deployment is disabled and you prefer to skip the review process, you can disable **Review Draft** as instructed in [Configure Data App deployment](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-data-app.md#manage-deployments). After **Review Draft** is disabled, the endpoint changes made in the TiDB Cloud console are pushed to GitHub immediately.
```

## Import configurations of an existing Data App

To import configurations of an existing Data App to a new Data App, take the following steps:

1. Copy configuration files of the existing Data App to a new branch or directory on GitHub.
2. On the [**Data Service**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/data-service) page of your project, [create a new Data App](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-data-app.md#create-a-data-app) without connecting to GitHub.
3. [Connect your new Data App to GitHub](#step-1-connect-your-data-app-to-github) with **Auto Sync & Deployment** enabled. When you specify the target repository, branch, and directory for your new Data App, use your new path with the copied configuration files.

> 4. Get the ID of your new Data App. You can click the name of your new Data App in the left pane and get the App ID in the **Data App Properties** area of the right pane.

Reviewer 2: ID 和 name

> 5. In your new path on GitHub, update the `app_id` in the `datapp_config.json` file to the ID you get, and then commit the changes.

Reviewer 2: 得 push 代码，光commit不行

4. In the dialog box, modify the repository, branch, and directory of your Data App.

    > **Note:**
    >

>     > - The directory must start with a slash. For example, `/mydata`. If the directory you specified does not exist in the target repository and branch, it will be created automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > - The directory must start with a slash (`/`). For example, `/mydata`. If the directory you specified does not exist in the target repository and branch, it will be created automatically.
```
